# PowerBI_HotelDomain_analysis_project
This is  an hotel domain analysis project made by me and i have used the data set and files from codebasics and then started my project a big shout out to the codebasic team.
**Ploblem Statement**:
 Edge group hotel of are having hotels across the main cities of india as mumbai,hydrabad,banglore,Delhi.
 The hotel's management is little bit worry about their business because there is some revenue decline this current year
 so they want to analyze that which segment is making the revenue down .
 they contacted an analysis team for this  and they came up with the solution.
 and they foundd some valuble insights that they shown to the management
 and now management came to  know that which faactor was causing them to  achive their dream revenue as compare to their competators.

 **Data_set**:
used the files provided by the company 
1.fact_aggregated_bookings.csv"
2.fact_bookings.csv"
3.Hotel_date.csv"
4.Hotel_rooms.csv"
5.hotels_file.csv"
6.metrics list.xlsx"

**Data_cleaninng**
used *power-Query-editor* for the Data Cleaning and transformation's.
steps used below to perform transformation:=
1.renamed some columns.
2.removed some blank data from rows.
3.given correct datatypes to the columns containing data.
4.then loaded the files in power Bi.

**DAX_Measures_in_PowerBi**
Created some extra metrics or dax formulas for more analytical calculations.
some of them are:
1.Revenue total:
"Revenue total" is a broad term and can refer to the total revenue generated by a business or a specific department within a business.
2.total occupancy %:
It represents the percentage of available rooms that are actually occupied during a specific period.
3.RevPar( Revenue Per Available Room):
RevPAR is calculated by dividing the total revenue generated by all rooms by the total number of available rooms.
4.ADR( Average Daily Rate):
The Average Daily Rate is a key performance indicator used to measure the average 
revenue earned for each room occupied in a hotel on a given day.
5.Average Rating:
"Average Rating" typically refers to the average score or rating given by users or customers to a product, service, or experience.
6.Total_bookings:
"Total bookings" typically refers to the overall number of reservations or bookings made for a particular service, 
event, accommodation, or product over a specified period.
7.Total_revenue% by cities:
gives total revenue based on the total earning by each particular hotel in the given Cities.
8.Booking % by Platform by booking_platform:
reffers to the boooking type for the customer from different hotel booking partners i.e (online/offline).
9.cancellation%:
"Cancellation percentage" or "cancellation rate" is a metric that indicates the proportion of 
bookings or reservations that are canceled relative to the total number of bookings made. 
10.Total_revenue% by category:
  reffers to the total revenue made by this  category of hotels i.e(Business ,luxury hotels).
  
**Visualization_in_PowerBi**
after calculating the measure  created some charts or visuals
visuals used in this project
1.card visuals to show KPI's
2.column chart
3.bar chart
4.table visual.
5.donught chart.
6.filters.

Thankyou for reading this much attaching files and power bi dashboard file .






 
